---
date: 2021-03-11T22:18
---

- [Dartmouth workshop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dartmouth_workshop) funded by Rockefeller foundation, co-founded by Shannon @ Bell Labs
    - why does Rockefeller care about artificial intelligence?
        QQ i want to read how they got the funds!! the porposal to rockefeller

    - also IBM: Rochester
    - chess machines, math machines, modeling human behavior in [original proposal](http://raysolomonoff.com/dartmouth/boxa/dart564props.pdf)

## Ray Solomonoff
- Computers at the time could solve very specific mathematical problems, but not much else. Solomonoff wanted to pursue a bigger question, how to make machines more generally intelligent
- "From his earliest years he was motivated by the pure joy of mathematical discovery and by the desire to explore where no one had gone before" <- wrong cite...

## John McCarthy
Hayes, Patrick J.; Morgenstern, Leora (2007). "On John McCarthy's 80th Birthday, in Honor of his Contributions". AI Magazine. Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence. 28 (4): 93–102. Retrieved November 24, 2010.

- UG at caltech, some grad school
    - After McCarthy received his Bachelor of Science from Caltech, he began his graduate studies there. For McCarthy, the intellectual ferment at the time was palpable. The excitement generated by the use of early computers to decode enemy messages—and thus help win World War II—was still running high
    - attended **Hixon** Symposium on Cerebral Mechanisms in Behavior (Jeffress 1951) [[hixon]]
    --> his chief interests related to the development of machines that scould think like people. 
- established Stanford AI Lab
    - Alumni of the original SAIL played a major role in many Silicon Valley firms, becoming founders of now-large firms such as Cisco Systems and Sun Microsystems as well as smaller companies such as Vicarm Inc. (acquired by Unimation), Foonly, Elxsi, Imagen, Xidex, Valid Logic Systems, and D.E. Shaw & Co
    - SAIL was reopened in 2004, now in the Gates Computer Science Building, with Sebastian Thrun becoming its new director. SAIL's 21st century mission is to "change the way we understand the world";[9] its researchers contribute to fields such as bioinformatics, cognition, computational geometry, computer vision, decision theory, distributed systems, game theory, general game playing, image processing, information retrieval, knowledge systems, logic, machine learning, multi-agent systems, natural language, neural networks, planning, probabilistic inference, sensor networks, and robotics.[9] The best-known achievement of the new SAIL is the Stanley self-driving car that won the 2005 DARPA Grand Challenge.
    - [AI lab affiliates](https://ai.stanford.edu/ai-affiliates-program/): ``Corporate members provide $200,000 per year of unrestricted support with an expected three-year commitment. These funds will be used to support the research activities of faculty and graduate students as well as the other programs of the affiliates program."

- quote: "He who refuses to do arithmetic is doomed to talk nonsense"
- one of first members of Stanford Department of CS


## Shannon [wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Claude_Shannon)
-  contributed to the field of cryptanalysis for national defense during World War II, including his fundamental work on codebreaking and secure telecommunications.
- Shannon then joined Bell Labs to work on fire-control systems and cryptography during World War II, under a contract with section D-2 (Control Systems section) of the National Defense Research Committee (NDRC).
- also worked at [Institute for Advanced Study:](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Institute_for_Advanced_Study)
    - Flexner's guiding principle in founding the institute was the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake.[3] The faculty have no classes to teach. There are no degree programs or experimental facilities at the institute. Research is never contracted or directed. It is left to each individual researcher to pursue their own goals.[4][5] Established during the rise of Fascism in Europe, the institute played a key role in the transfer of intellectual capital from Europe to America. It quickly earned its reputation as the pinnacle of academic and scientific life—a reputation it has retained.[6][7][8
    - claims to be "neutral"^ but  funded by the National Science Foundation. and gifts/grants etc
    - From the day it opened the IAS had a major impact on mathematics, physics, economic theory, and world affairs

- info theory: Information theory's fundamental contribution to natural language processing and computational linguistics was further established in 1951, in his article "Prediction and Entropy of Printed English", showing upper and lower bounds of entropy on the statistics of English – giving a statistical foundation to language analysis.